#### Notes:
Masa CMS is backward compatible with Mura CMS. Migrating is as easy as executing an upgrade. No it is not but I wish it was.....

---
## Steps to execute
To migrate from Mura CMS to Masa CMS, execute the following steps:
* Set `autoupdateurl=https://github.com/MasaCMS/MasaCMS/archive/main.zip` in _/config/settings.ini.cfm_
* Login to the Mura administrator
* Reload application with `?appreload`
* Execute an **Update Mura Core** in the admin navigation
* If any **error** happens here, check the section [Possible Problems](#Possible-Problems) below
* Apply updates with `?appreload&appreload=true&applydbupdates`

# Possible Problems
1. **Error**: The button **Update Mura Core** does not appear in the admin navigation:
    Set `allowAutoUpdates=true` in _/config/settings.ini.cfm_

2. **Error**: `The index 'IX_tusers_remoteid' is dependent on column 'remoteID'.`:
    Run following query after creating a backup
   ```sql
   DROP INDEX IX_tusers_remoteid ON tusers;
   GO
   ALTER TABLE tusers ALTER COLUMN remoteID nvarchar(50) null;
   ```

3. **Error**: `The current production version code is currently not available. Please try again later.` in _/requirements/mura/autoUpdater/autoUpdater.cfc_:
    Replace `http://webservices.getmura.com/mura/changeset` with `https://github.com/MasaCMS/MasaCMS/archive/main.zip` in _/requirements/mura/autoUpdater/autoUpdater.cfc_

## Getting plugins working:
- Open every `configurator.cfm`
- Add the following code to your configurator:
  ```xml
  <cfsavecontent variable="data.html">
    <cf_objectconfigurator>
    <cfoutput>
        <!--- your configurator Interface --->
    </cfoutput>
    </cf_objectconfigurator>
  </cfsavecontent>
  <cfoutput>#createObject("component","mura.json").encode(data)#</cfoutput>
  <cfabort>
  ```
- Pass params into `<cf_objectconfigurator>` if needed (TODO: Describe)

## 404 when switching masa Dsp Obj.
- Update _/web.config_:  
```xml
<httpRuntime executionTimeout="180" maxRequestLength="250000000" maxUrlLength="26000" maxQueryStringLength="2048000" />
<requestLimits maxAllowedContentLength="250000000" maxUrl="10999" maxQueryString="2097151" />
```
> Note: Some websites exclude _/web.config_ from version control. Copy it from the live server.

# Semi-automated configurator.cfm update

In the `_snippets_` repository, there's a new snippet `mura-migration-wrap-configurator`. Use it as follows:
- Select the `<cfoutput>*</cfoutput>` in your configurator.cfm
- Hit F1
- Search `Snippets: Insert Snippet`
- Search and select `mura-migration-wrap-configurator`

# Re-enable mura scope

To enable the `[mura]` scope in content, add following to your theme's `contentRenderer.cfc`:
- `this.enablemuratag=true;`
- `this.enableDynamicContent=true;`

# Displaying extended attributes in the Basic Contianer

Set `showExtensionsInDefault=true` in _/config/settings.ini.cfm_
This should almost always be enabled unless you have a good reason not to.
# Content bean is an empty string in components

Masa seems to have changed the order in which ccomponents get initialized, so you can encounter sittuations  in wich you want to use `m.content()` but it hasn't been populated yet. To fix this you have to spawn your own conent bean and then replace `m.content()` with your own function, zb. `getNewContentBean()`

```java
/**
 * @hint creates a new content bean beacuse for some reason `m.content()` is an empty string
 * @return struct with content bean
 */
private struct function getNewContentBean() {
  return application.serviceFactory.getBean('m').getBean('content').loadBy(contentid='00000000000000000000000000000000001', siteId="[siteID]");
}
```
